.\"
.\" Man page for Bsetroot
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 by Wilbert Berendsen <wbsoft@xs4all.nl>
.\"
.TH bsetroot 1 "June 16th, 2000" "0.60.3"
.SH NAME
bsetroot \- Openbox utility to change root window appearance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR bsetroot " \-help"
.br
.B bsetroot
.RI "[ \-display " display " ] \-solid " color
.br
.B bsetroot
.RI "[ \-display " display " ] \-mod " "x y" " \-fg " color " \-bg " color
.br
.B bsetroot
.RI "[ \-display " display " ] \-gradient " texture " \-from " color " \-to " color
.SH DESCRIPTION
Bsetroot is a utility that can control the appearance of the root window in
three ways: Either give it a solid color, or write a two color modula pattern
to it, or render a gradient texture, based on two different colors.
.PP
Bsetroot resembles
.IR xsetroot (1)
in this functionality but it supports multiple screen displays, and gradient
textures the same way as Openbox does.
It doesn't handle cursors etc.
Bsetroot is part of the Openbox package.
.SH OPTIONS
Bsetroot operates in three ways, you must choose one of the first 3 options:
.TP
.BI \-solid " color"
Sets the root window to specified color.
.TP
.BI \-mod " x y"
Creates a modula pattern. You must specify
.BR \-bg " and " \-fg
colors.
.TP
.BI \-gradient " texturestring"
Renders the specified texture string to the root window.
For possible texture strings, please refer to
.IR openbox (1).
You must also specify both a
.BR \-from " and a " \-to
color.
.TP
.BI \-display " display"
Tells Bsetroot to connect to the specified display.
.TP
.BI "\-bg, \-background " color
Background color.
Needed for
.B \-mod
patterns.
.TP
.BI "\-fg, \-foreground " color
Foreground color.
Needed for
.B \-mod
patterns.
.TP
.BI \-from " color"
Start color for rendering textures.
Needed for
.B \-gradient
operation mode.
.TP
.BI \-to " color"
Ending color for rendering textures.
Needed for
.B \-gradient
operation mode.
.TP
.B \-help
Prints version info and short help text.
.SH AUTHOR
Bsetroot was written and maintained by Brad Hughes
.nh \" hyphenation off
(blackbox@alug.org)
.hy \" on again
and Jeff Raven
.nh
(jraven@psu.edu).
.hy
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR openbox (1)
